# Chapter 15 - Security

[TOC]


> Key security enable: **Encryption**


## Security Problem

### Security Violations
There are 2 types of security violations: by **intention** (malicious) or by **accident**. 

### Forms of misuse
And there are several forms of accidental or malicious misues:

* Breach of **Confidentiality**: _unauthorized reading_ of data.
* Breach of **Integrity**: _unauthorized modification_ of data.
* Breach of **Availability**: unauthorized destruction of data by causing _havoc_ or _defacement_.
* **Theft of Service**: _unauthorized use_ of resource.
* **Denial of Service**: _preventing legitimate use_ of service.


### Attacking Methods
* **Masquarading**: pretend to be s/o
* **Replay Attack**: keep system busy by repeat of valid data transmission.
* **Message Modification**
* **Man in the middle attack**
* **Session Hijacking**: MITM + intercepting an active session. 

### Program Threats
* **Trojan House**: code segment misuses its env, login emulation, spyware. Attached to a program, but _does not_ replicate. 
* **Trap Door**: leaving secret access point, backdoor
* **Logic Bomb**: initiates a security incident under certain conditions.
* **Stack and Buffer Overflow**: overload the data until return address is modified. _Solution_: SPARC and Solaris throws exception when exec from stack memory, Linux and Windows XP mark those page as non-exec.
* **Virus**: attach itself to a program, self replicate & infect other program. Specific to CPU arch, OS, apps. **Why Windows has more virus?** Linux/UNIX has separated users/roots, where as Windows users usually have admin privilege, and Windows systems outnumber UNIX/LINUS. Categories of virus: Macros, File, Boot sector, Source Code, Polymorphic, Encrypted, Stealth, Tunneling, Multipartite, Armored.
* **Worm**: replicate functional copies of themselves but as separate entities.

## Cryptography as Security Tool
There are 2 types of encryption algorithms:

### Symmetric Encryption
* Mostly base on **Transformation**.
* **DES: Most commonly** used **symmetric** **block-encryption** algorithm. 64-bit chunk value and 56-bit key. XORED previous ciphertext before encrypt.
* **Triple DES**: improve version of DES with 3 times encryption using 2 or 3 keys.
* **AES** (Advanced Encryption Standard): key length 128, 192, 256, and data chunk of 128-bit.
* **Twofish**: variable key up to 256-bit, 128-bit chuk value.
* **RC4**: **_Stream_ Cipher**, when length of comm makes block cipher slow. Used in WEP, HTTPS.

### Asymmetric Encryption
* **Key difference with symmetric**: the enc and dec keys are different.
* Mostly base on **Maths Function**, not Transformations.
* **Not for large amount** of data.
* Used for _small amount of data_, _authentication_, _confidentiality_, _key distribution_.
* **RSA**: block-cipher public key algo.
    * Encryption algo is $ E(k_e, N)(m) = m^k_e mod N $, where $ k_e $ satisfies $ k_ek_dmod(p-1)(q-1)=1 $; decryption is $ D(k_d, N)( c) = c^k_d mod N $

### Authentication
* **Authentication** is used to verify a msg or doc was authored by a certain party, and not altered or modified, i.e. integrity verification. 
    * Each msg has an authenticator (generated by the sender) and will be verified by the receiver. 
    * There are _2 types of auth algos_: MAC (symm enc) and Digital Signature (asym enc, key is _inversed_). 
    * Fewer computations, auth is shorter than msg, for non-repudiation.
* **Key Distribution**: use CA to prove who owns the public key. 
* **Application**: SSL, HTTPS, IPSEC/VPN

### User Authentication
* Use password, symmetric, asymmetric enc, user identity (key, card, attribute, fingerprint, retina, etc)
* **One Time password**: uses _SecurID_, _S/K system_.

## Security Defense
* 2 types: Intrusion Detection (IDS), and Intrusion Prevention (IPS).
* **Intrusion**: signature-based detection of dangerous behavior patterns (need benchmark of normal behavior first, requires upgrade of signatures), anomaly detection.
* False Alarm = False Positive (must be low), Missed Intrusions = False Negtive.
* Network firewall: DMZ - semitrusted domain.

### Security Classification
Base on US Department of Defense: D(minimal security), C(some protection), B(C+sensitivity labels), A(formal design, verification techniques). 



## Questions

### Which symmetric encryption algorithm has longest key length?
Ans: RC5 (0-2040 bit)

### Differences of Asymmetric and Symmetric Encryption?

### How many bit do MD5 & SHA1 produce?

### How many types of Authentication Algorithm?

### Why false alarm must be low in IDS & IPS?